# What are Stores, AccessControllers and Indicies.

Before we start to implement
our custom store, access controller and index
to allow our users to comment on each others
notes, we should probably define what a store,
AccessController and Index are and what
function they have in OrbitDB.

## The Store
You have already worked with several
Stores in the Tutorial.
The `docstore` was used to store
the individual pieces (or rather their CIDs)
and the `kvstore` type was used to
represent a user.

Both of those were instances of a Store.
They stored some data and provided easy
functions to access them, like `get`, `put` or `set`,
with which you could easily interact with
the database itself.

## The Index
But a store doesn't actually
store the current state of the database,
because this is done in the `Index`.

The index parses the log of operations
generated by the store while
modifying the database and generates
an easy to access and use representation
of the current state of the database.

The index is then used by the Store
to implement it's API.

## The Access Controllers
Access Controllers or short ACL (Access Control List)
were already discussed [02: Managing Data](../01_Tutorial/02_Managing_Data).

They are a piece of code, that is invoked, whenever
you try to write to the database, to ensure,
that you have the right to do so.

It is setup when you create a database
and stored in the Manifest of the database.
(That thing, that the mulithash in the middle
of your orbitdb address refers to)

Anyone, who supports this type of access
controller, can follow the rules of the access controller.

But this also means, you cannot modify your access
controller and it's options after you created
the database.

**Next: [Choosing a data structure](02_Choosing_a_data_structure.md)**
